a bright flash on your left boom where
did that lightning come from
your plane shakes your instruments
stopped working a minute ago the sky was
clear and blue
now it's pitch black your senses go
haywire
you don't understand which way is up or
down it's a strange feeling
you're beyond time in space lightning
flashes from all directions
clouds envelop your plane and swirl it
into a vortex
you grip the controls and repeat to
yourself i'll get out of this
i'll get out through the dark and thick
clouds you see a ray of light
it's your only chance your plane flies
toward the light like a moth to a flame
and whoosh you break out of the terrible
whirlwind
your instruments are back to normal the
plane's no longer shaking
you're saved that's how pilots who face
the bermuda triangle anomaly describe
their experiences
well at least on tv shows the huge chunk
of ocean between miami bermuda and
puerto rico remained the planet's most
mysterious area
but it's not alone alaska has its own
triangle
since the late eighties sixteen thousand
people have disappeared
there eyewitnesses to the bermuda
triangle anomaly
talk about thick fog lightning balls of
line and hallucinations
in alaska everything's a bit more
complicated
people planes ships they just disappear
without a trace
there's no one around to tell us what it
felt like
in 1950 a plane took off from anchorage
alaska
headed for great falls in montana it was
carrying 8 crew members and 36
passengers
two hours after the start of the flight
the captain radioed in that
everything was fine then silence
the 100 foot long plane seemed to
evaporate into thin air
85 aircraft and around 7 000 people
search for the plane
no trace not even a screw bolt
nothing that plane mystery made the
alaskan triangle famous
if you look on a map it's a wild and
mostly unpopulated zone that passes near
anchorage barrow and juno if you connect
the dots on a map
you get an epic triangle you can fit the
whole state of oregon in it twice
if you read around you'll find a bunch
of major areas on the planet where
weird stuff keeps happening over land
sea
desert and jungle scientists have many
questions about these places
they all have extreme electrical and
magnetic anomalies
planes and ships disappear in them
people hear stuff
see stuff and hear some of them china's
black bamboo valley looks like a
hollywood set
for a seriously scary movie here
everything's creepy and mysterious
perfect imagine a bamboo forest that
stretches up
130 feet the green plants live extremely
close to each other and
barely let in any sunlight a strange
fog hangs in the air where it comes from
and why it's always there
no one knows and the mysteries don't end
there
for centuries people have disappeared in
the vast forest
scientists believe the site's crazy
geology is to blame
cracks can suddenly appear in the ground
big enough to fall into
there are sharp changes in weather and
maybe even poisonous steam
certain trees give it off when they fall
to the ground
there's a long road through ladakh in
india it's called
the magnetic road it slopes upwards and
seems to violate the laws of gravity
here's what happens you drive to the
foot of the hill
turn off the engine and get out of the
car the car
starts rolling uphill up to 12 miles per
hour
why does it happen theory one the hill
has an incredibly strong magnetic pool
and it attracts cars once they get too
close the indian air force supposedly
avoids flying over it to avoid any
interference with their equipment
version two it's all just an optical
illusion
the hills around it seem to fade into
the horizon it looks to us
like the road is sloped up but it's
actually not
huge lake michigan looks more like a sea
than a lake
and over the past 400 years six thousand
ships have disappeared in it
why does it happen the lake has its own
mysterious triangle
and there are actually more unsolved
mysteries here than in the famous
bermuda triangle
in 1950 flight 2501 disappeared over the
lake
on route from new york to minneapolis
the fate of the three crew members
and 55 passengers remains unknown
in 2007 an underwater archaeology
professor was surveying the bottom of
lake michigan
he found stones arranged in a circle 40
feet down from the surface
they kind of looked like stonehenge in
england but
why were they at the bottom of a lake
who put them there
archaeologists found a carved pattern on
one of the stones
its outline resembles a drawing of an
animal
now that's not unusual except that this
particular animal which looks like a
mammoth
was probably carved around 10 000 years
ago
sleep is very difficult for the
venezuelan locals
who live near lake maracaibo right at
the place where the catatombo river
flows
into the lake there are huge electrical
storms that can go up to 10 hours long
260 days a year that's over a million
lightning bolts over the lake
every year scientists don't know exactly
what causes
the daily lightning parties some people
think it's due to the gas methane which
comes out of the ground
other scientists blame uranium deposits
in the soil
nowadays though most researchers are
sure that the lightning is caused by
weather
cold mountain air smashes against warm
sea air the result
a lot of friction and moisture the
perfect combo for near nightly natural
fireworks
it's super loud and kind of annoying if
you live nearby
but the area is really important for the
planet it helps regenerate our vital
atmospheric ozone
and the one that started it all the
bermuda triangle
planes ships all gone without a trace
the theories are endless scientists even
think there might be a huge
meteor at the bottom of the sea that
emits its own magnetic energy
it might have confused the navigation
equipment on all those unlucky carriers
and it's been going on for a while
researchers think that
it was causing trouble even way back in
columbus's time
as far as alaska is concerned magnetic
anomalies are a dime a dozen
around here your compass might be off by
5 30
or even 60 degrees but equipment
malfunction
isn't really enough to explain the
disappearance of so many aircraft and
people
in this absolutely massive state alaska
is
wild high mountains never-ending forests
snow in the winter and some serious heat
in the summer
there are three million lakes twelve
thousand rivers
and around a hundred thousand glaciers
there's only one person per square mile
california has over two hundred fifty
you could walk for days
weeks even months without seeing anyone
except maybe a bear or two
and the days and nights can be really
confusing this far
north tourists from all over the world
dream
of coming to alaska to see the planet as
it was before
no concrete jungle no endless roads
warehouses and cornfields
but this isn't just a beautiful place
it's also
an incredibly dangerous place you can
get lost in the forest
run out of food get soaked to the bone
lose your compass or gps
in the harsh conditions of alaska danger
is always just around the corner
most vacationers just aren't prepared
for that
eighty percent of the state's
communities aren't connected to the road
system
back in the wild west horses carried
people products and information
in alaska it's all about planes alaska
has
9 000 aircraft and 8 000 pilots and
counting
that's more than one out of every 100
alaskans
sudden weather changes frequent and wild
rain snow storms and fog
not a great recipe for a smooth fly the
wings on alaskan plains can get covered
with ice the fog can hide the snowy
mountain tops
and strong gusts of wind can knock a
tiny plane
way off course that's what those pilots
have to deal with
every time they take off so that plane
that disappeared
investigators believe that the douglas c
54 skymaster
disappeared due to bad weather and any
debris
was covered with snow or fell into a
lake
five percent of alaska is covered in
glaciers and there are loads of cracks
in them
some big enough to fit a person a few
people or
even a whole airplane